The Joe Rogan experience.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, uh, I gotta give you some thanks for, for, for,
even for doing it. I, before the fight happened,
I had kind of already had in my mind, I'm like, okay,
it's been a year since we last kind of did this. And mm-hmm <affirmative>,
it was right after the Barboza fight. And I was like, okay, I'm a, I'm,
I'm a get through the fight and then I'm gonna do this.
<affirmative> the result. Wasn't exactly what I, what I wanted,
you know what I mean? And it made me hesitant about doing it,
but I was like, uh, this is the story, you know what I mean? Yeah. And,
and this is, as I said, kind of like was upset at myself for a few days.
Eventually I just kind of got over and I'm like, you know what I said,
I was gonna do it before.
I'm not about to be no sore as loser and you know yeah.
Why does that? Well, like I said, I, I love you. Whether you win or lose,
I I'm just, you know, it's,
it's a giant part of the game. Yeah. Half the game is losing. Yeah.
Someone has to win. Someone has to lose. If you watch a fight someone's losing,
unless.
It's a draw. And I figure it's,
it's all about how you and how you take it into the next fight.
And really when you look at it, I mean, it sucks. It really does. And I,
I hate it. Like, and it, like, it's something that boils up inside of me. Like,
I, I go over, I replayed a fight a million times in my head and I,
I just hate losing. And I hate that feeling, but it's just the reality.
And it's like, it it's just real life and just real life. It's.
Nothing you can do about, there's nothing you do once it's over. Yeah. The only,
only thing you can do is learn and grow. Exactly. Yeah.
And the guy you fought as a stud, I mean, he thought fought Hael dos.
He's a legitimate world champion fighter.
Yeah. When, when I was approached with the fight and,
and kind of start really diving into it and really looking at him,
like I always like a really big challenge and that one was definitely one,
you know, he had already had a lot of fights, uh, that went five rounds.
He had fought, he's fought pretty much everybody, you know, uh,
Kamar Uzman was his last fight. Uh, Kobe Covington,
he had fought KIB he already fought like a lot of, uh, top,
top guys and for five rounds. So I, I knew what type of challenge it was.
It's just, I hold myself at a high esteem. So I was like, you know what,
I'm, I'm just ready to do it. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm <affirmative> you,
the, the fight itself was, was good, but either way,
I'm gonna learn from it and, and, and grow from it.
And I still got a whole long, long road ahead of me. So.
You do have a long road ahead of you, but, you know,
as we're talking about that long road, it's new up on you real quick.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. And before you know it, you know,
you're 37 years old trying to figure out if you still wanna fight. Yeah. That's,
that's how it happens to guys. I've seen it happen to guys. Yeah.
So I feel like if you approach it smart, you know what I mean? Mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, it could still get done, which is what I'm trying to do. Right.
Uh, I kind of already knew that I needed to make some changes and, and,
and do some things D um, even before this fight and before my last one, too.
Um, but, you know, I just was like, okay,
I'm gonna just get through this one and then I'll do it.
And now I'm gonna get through this one and then I'll do it. But, you know,
that's kind of a big wake up call to just like, all right.
It's time to get outside of the comfort zone and, and,
and kind of do something different and, and kind of do what I already know.
I gotta do.
What did you think was gonna happen in the fight and what was surprising?
I didn't think that he would be able to keep the, the pace for sure. Um,
but what surprised me was how smart he was and, and how, uh,
he beat me tactically more than anything is, you know, when I was going,
he wasn't doing, you know, and he, and he kind of, he,
he controlled the pace better than I thought he was going to. You know,
I thought once I set that pace that he was gonna be right there with me,
but then a a as it got going, I started to realize, oh,
he's not really expending much energy.
He's kind of just letting me burn out my energy. And, and,
and then he took his moment when, when I made the, the last mistake.
And really when it boiled down to it,
I lost one position at the end there mm-hmm, <affirmative>, uh,
where I went for a take down and, and, you know, nine times outta 10,
when I go and club back, the guy hits his knees. Uh, but he,
he just stayed on his feet and stepped out. And when I, my knees just like,
lost that position and, and against a guy like that, so dangerous,
a black belt and his, uh, is, is so good.
I knew one slip up was gonna be all I needed. And I think he knew that too.
And he was just kind of waiting, buying his time and hoping that I slip up.
It seemed like you expended a lot of energy early on.
And it seemed like by the time he got the submission, you were fairly tired.
Yeah. I mean, uh, fall, you always used to tell me this and it, it was always,
uh, uh, there's tired and can, and tired, and can't, mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
you know, it it's a fight it's, you're gonna be tired. Right, right. Uh, but I,
I still do think I had my legs underneath me and, and, and still could,
it's just, I could have played it better.
Tactically I could have had had, you know, more time when I wasn't just going,
going, like you said, especially in that first round, uh,
if I would've had a little bit better experience maybe, or, or, or something, I,
you know, I don't know. I I'll figure that out, but, uh,
I could have played it a little smarter, like he did.
Are,
do you have a person that's giving you strategy or are you sort of making your
strategy up on the fly?
That's one of the things that, that's kind of the main thing that, that, um, uh,
I, Robert Fallis was that guy for me. Yeah. Uh, until he passed and,
and then I kind of just picked up the ball and, you know, I,
I understand fighting, um, but yeah, it's, it's mostly me doing the strategy.
And right now that that's where I'm in the limbo of,
of trying to find somebody who already has that experience and has already been
there and done it, uh, to tell me a little better.
Strategy. Yeah. I think it's so critical, man. I really do.
And we had this conversation over the phone about it. I think that, uh,
a young fighter with a lot of potential like yourself,
there's a reason why fighters have trainers. Mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
there's a reason fighters have head coaches.
It's re it's not because they want to give up all their money. Yeah.
It's because it, it helps. And you, you can delegate those that,
that thought process to a master,
someone who's a master of martial arts who understands positions,
who understands strategies, seen guys tired, seeing guys good,
seeing you in the gym, seeing you grind, understands your skillset,
understands how you are when you come in.
Perfect understands how you are when you come in tired, you know? So that,
that is just giant.
And having someone who understands you psychologically as well, and,
and also having someone that you respect and that you want to impress all those
things are huge. Huge.
Yeah. It's, it's, it's a big one. Uh, especially like you said,
being able to talk to you too, and, and being able to understand you.
I think that's what Rob did really well. Yes. Uh, and, and he kind of,
he was so good. He kind of like reeled me in a little bit. Like, I I'm the type,
I I'm just kind of go, go, go.
And I kind of think higher to myself than maybe even
I am, but that's just how I am. So, but that's how you have confidence, right?
Yeah. So, but he was the type to kind of reel me in and,
and he used to even tell me like, Hey, you don't gotta get hit so much. Or,
you know, I'll, I'll stand in front of a guy. And just like,
especially when I was younger, it was a little even worse. And, you know,
cause mm-hmm, <affirmative>, that's just how I be feeling. Right. But, you know,
he was kind of the type to, to reel me in him more than anything.
It's not like he would tell me one specific techniques or, or it,
it was even about his style or anything like that.
It was just the way that he was able to,
to kind of get through to me and kind of make me understand what it is that I'm
trying to do.
Yeah. And you guys, you guys had just a good relationship too.
He was such a good guy, man. Yeah. Such to good dude to,
I mean, just, just losing him. I mean,
it was devastating for the whole mixed martial arts world, but losing him for,
you had to be a real, just a, a,
a giant change in your career.
Yeah. It's a.
Which fight did he die before?
Uh, he died right after the Tony fight <affirmative>,
which is a whole nother piece of it. You know, I, I know he had a whole lot of,
uh, uh, things going on early in his life, especially, you know,
with his family. And, um, when we went to his,
his Memorial and people were kind of explaining, you know,
what it's like growing up in a, uh, uh, he grew up, uh, Jehovah witness.
So he is like explaining what, like to grow up like that and, you know,
to try and get away from that and having your family disown you. Yeah.
And how like that can I, I, I, I understand, I understand importance of family,
so I, I can get that, but then even I'm like, man, you know,
they would tell us, see, we were more so keeping him alive longer than,
than anything. So I'm like, man, if I would've won that fight with Tony,
it's like, would he, should, would he still be here? You know what I mean? Wow.
Those are the type of like, like did I do it to myself almost,
but I already know I'm already at the point where I kind of got over it a little
bit and I kind of understand that I'm not gonna be able to replace him by any
means. Uh,
but I am gonna have to get that person who can still speak to me in that
same light, you know, the only way that I'm gonna make it right.
Is to win that title and, and do it for him. You know, he,
he kind of saw that for me.
And he was kind of the one to give me that confidence to say,
cuz he he's already coached multiple UFC champions. So when he told me that,
that he could see me being a champ, that really like, I was like, oh, okay.
Like I didn't really, like, I, I kind of got it a little bit,
but I didn't really know it until like he gave me that kind of confidence.
Right. Um, so the only thing that's gonna make it right.
Is to go out there and win that title. And that's that's if I got it,
wouldn't no matter what I gotta do, I'm not stopping until I do it.
So are you 100%.
Committed to one.
70 Now? Yeah, I think so. I think it's, I think it's, I think it's right. Um,
you look like you're about one.
90 Now, right?
Yeah. Just about I'm I'm about 180 5, 180 6, um,
which is normally what I would be about getting ready for a 55 pound five too.
Um, actually when I stepped into the cage, I was lighter, uh,
going into this fight than I was for some of my, my 55 pound fights really.